Natural language processing (NLP) is a subfield of linguistics, computer science, and artificial intelligence concerned with the interactions between computers and human language, in particular how to program computers to process and analyze large amounts of natural language data. The goal is a computer capable of understanding the contents of documents, including the contextual nuances of the language within them. Challenges in natural language processing frequently involve speech recognition, natural language understanding, and natural language generation. The history of NLP generally started in the 1950s, although work can be found from earlier periods. In 1950, Alan Turing published an article titled "Computing Machinery and Intelligence" which proposed what is now called the Turing test as a criterion of intelligence. The Georgetown experiment in 1954 involved fully automatic translation of more than sixty Russian sentences into English. The authors claimed that within three or five years, machine translation would be a solved problem. However, real progress was much slower, and after the ALPAC report in 1966, which concluded that research had ten years on machine translation had failed to fulfill the expectations, funding for machine translation was dramatically reduced. Little further research in machine translation was conducted until the late 1980s, when the first statistical machine translation systems were developed. Some notably successful NLP systems developed in the 1960s were SHRDLU, a natural language system working in restricted "blocks worlds" with restricted vocabularies, and ELIZA, a simulation of a Rogerian psychotherapist, written by Joseph Weizenbaum between 1964 and 1966. Using almost no information about human thought or emotion, ELIZA sometimes provided a startlingly human-like interaction. When the "patient" exceeded the very small knowledge base, ELIZA might provide a generic response, for example, responding to "My head hurts" with "Why do you say your head hurts?". During the 1970s, many programmers began to write "knowledge-based systems", in which the language of interaction was a model of the world about which the system had specialized knowledge. In 2003, topic model LDA was published. In the 2010s, representation learning and deep neural network-style machine learning methods became widespread in natural language processing. Google DeepMind proposed the Transformer architecture in 2017 and pretrained language model BERT in 2018. This allowed NLP systems to be trained on much larger amounts of data, achieving state-of-the-art results on many benchmarks. OpenAI released GPT-3 in 2020, a large language model with 175 billion parameters, capable of performing a wide variety of NLP tasks. In 2023, ChatGPT became the fastest growing application in history, reaching 100 million users within two months of launch.